# Transaction Fraud Project

This project aims to capture credit card transaction fraud with a supervised model. The final model can detect about 55% of all frauds in 3% of the population. Based on the assumption — on average, $400 gain from every caught fraud and $20 loss on every false positive detection — the overall saving is over $20 million with a 3% cutoff.

### Section 1. Data Quality Report
<b>\[File: DQR - Transaction Fraud.ipynb\]</b>

There are 10 fields (2 numerical and 8 categorical) and 96,753 records. Among those, there are 3 fields with missing values or frivolous values. The overall fraudulent rate is 1.095%, which indicates the dataset is imbalanced. 

<b> Feature Description:</b>
1. Recnum - Number of records (unique index)
2. Date -  Transaction date
3. Amount - Transaction amount
4. Cardnum - Card number
5. Merchnum - Merchant number
6. Merch description - A Description of each merchant involved
7. Merch state - State where the merchant is located
8. Merch zip - The zip code of the merchant
9. Transtype - Type of transaction (we only use P - Purchase)
10. Fraud - Fraud label (flag)

### Section 2. Data Cleansing and Feature Engineering 
<b>\[File: Feature Engineering - Transaction.ipynb & DQR - Transaction Fraud.ipynb\]</b>

Excluded outliers and filled missing or frivolous values with the population mean or mode after thorough matching. Created 2,981 variables based on the interval time between transactions, velocity, transaction amount, variability, and uniqueness, using 32 entities generated by the original 10 features.

### Section 3. 




